---
title: Elixir Hoarding
date: '2021-06-07'
description: Wherein I discuss the psychology of hoarding rare items in Final Fantasy games and how it manifests in real life with bacon fat collection.
categories:
  - gaming
  - final fantasy
  - psychology
  - hoarding
  - cooking
  - nostalgia
  - retro gaming
published: true
---

My first game console as a child was the original NES (Nintendo Entertainment System... I am not
sure for whom this expansion exists). I was pretty young when we got it, but I had to be less than
seven years old (you can do maths if you want). We had the original Mario Bros., Mario Bros 3, and
a few other games. One of the games I owned that I was not yet old enough to fully understand or
play was Final Fantasy. I have no idea where or why we got this game because it was clearly too
much for my attention span.

By the time we got a SNES (Super...) I was seven or eight. We had a lot of fun playing Super Mario
Bros. (which is a game with which I am still fascinated - ROMHax mainly keep my interest) and Mario
Kart, etc. At some point, I was reintroduced to the Final Fantasy series again by way of Final
Fantasy II, which remains in my top-10 games of all time list. By then, I, at least, mastered the
game system to play the game, I understood the objectives, and how to improve in the game. It made
sense to me.

One interesting aspect (to young me) was the inventory system. As the player's party quested
through the world, he would acquire armor, weapons, and items. Armor and weapons were
straight-forward to understand: exploring a new area, city, or dungeon would often result in
finding new armor/weapons to use for the upcoming battles. The current armor/weapon would go into
the bag and get sold later (or thrown/broken, in the case of weapons - FFII had an interesting
system for old weapons never really becoming obsolete). In the case of items, I would usually stock
up on simple potions, fenix[sic] downs (revival consumable), ethers (returns mana), and other
battle-useful consumables. Potions had varying strengths and would return health points (a potion
might give 150 and a hi-potion might give 350, using completely made up numbers).

**However**, there was an item that restored 100% of the character's HP/MP - the Elixir. These
items were rare in the Final Fantasy games and one might only have encountered 20 or so in an
entire 40-plus-hour game. Given this scarcity, I would hoard them, and not for the obvious reason
such as saving for the final boss, or even a really hard boss. See, the early Final Fantasy games
had limited resources to dedicate to the battles, and there was always a very simple way to make
boss fights easier: grind random encounters to raise your level higher than what was expected to
fight _that_ boss. Final Fantasy II was more about the story than the battle system _by design_,
so when you got to the Antlion, the player's party was expected to be level X across the board.
It was expected that if the player was younger and having trouble with the technicalities in the
fight, then that player could just grind a few more levels in the dungeon before trying again. It
was truly brilliant and simple.

The more recent Final Fantasy games abandoned that beautiful simplicity in favor of a scaling
system where the enemy would be doable at any level, but moreover it would be scaled **to** the
party level so it would always be a challenge. I understood this decision, but I always preferred
the simple purity of the original model.

So, then, why did I hoard Elixirs if every fight could be made more simple by grinding up
additional levels?

I suspect I am not alone here, but I think it's a FOMO (fear of missing out) thing. I think that I
always worried, even after playing and beating the games several times, that I would _need_ that
Elixir and then have squandered it earlier in the game. Again, this fear is completely nonsensical,
and I would always get into the last boss fight of the game with 20-30 Elixirs on hand and then
beat the game without having used a single one.

## Bacon

Since the start of the pandemic, I have had a bit of a weekend ritual. I would wake up on Saturday,
make myself a cup of coffee (which I swear I cannot type normally anymore - I type covfefe every
time my fingers start dancing), and sit and watch my "stories" (anime, mainly) sipping away. At or
around 9am my son would wake up and want to get his day started, and we would work our way into the
kitchen to make some breakfast. He would usually have a breakfast bar or something simple, though
I would offer to make him weekend-esque breakfasts like oatmeal, pancakes, or what I was going to
cook myself: bacon and eggs.

I would first cook the bacon, as it took the longest, while my second cup of covfefe (I am just
going to leave this and type it this way from now on) brewed. After the bacon had cooked to my
preferred doneness (I am not going to share this because it will cause a war regardless of what I
claim to prefer) I would cook my eggs in all that delicious rendered bacon fat. If you like eggs
over medium, as I do, then I highly recommend eating them this way - cooked in bacon fat is
basically the greatest tasting eggs I have ever had. I am reminded of my grandmother cooking me
bacon and eggs this way when I visited as a child; in fact, I would wager that most of my joy comes
from this nostalgic memory of bacon and eggs.

A few weeks ago, I got a new package of bacon. Mind you, I only cook 4-6 strips of bacon per
weekend, so it takes me a few weeks to go through an entire package. I plopped a couple slices down
in my skillet and turned it on as I always did. To my astonishment, when my bacon was "done"
basically no fat had actually rendered into the pan. I was confused, but assumed that it was the
newness of the bacon and that as it aged a bit the rendering would improve. The next day was the
same thing: the bacon rendered next-to-no fat and my eggs were sad because of it. The bacon **had**
fat, mind you. It was not as if I was sold bacon that was somehow 99% lean. I could see, and more
to the point taste, that fat when I ate the cooked bacon. It was not a question over the duration
of the cooking - I cooked two strips until they were very well burnt _for science_ and still no fat
rendered out. The next weekend was the same. Over a few weekends, I ended up cooking that entire
package of bacon, but it never did render enough fat and each breakfast was a disappointment; so
much so that I simply have not bought a new package of bacon since then, or really cooked eggs on
the weekend. On the one hand there are calories to cut and it seems like low-hanging fruit to
remove for a diet, but on the other hand, what is the point of buying bacon (which is okay but
certainly not my favorite aspect of the meal) if it is not going to render fat and make my eggs
taste delicious (bar none, the one aspect of the meal about which I care most dearly)?

## An Elixir

I love to cook. Cooking is science for hungry people, and the end-product is usually something that
gives joy. Many, many years ago, I started collecting bacon fat when I cooked it for meals (if the
entire family was coming over, and we were going to make BLTs, for example) and storing it in a
Bob's Big Boy salad dressing jar (how I got this, I do not know - I have not been to one of these
restaurants for 25 years).

I finally decided to relieve myself of the fear of needing this bacon fat for some imaginary future
scenario, and made myself some eggs in a dollop of my Elixir.

HP/MP fully restored.
